What I'm finding in the lateral surface of
the gastrocnemius muscle over here, which
is the large muscle of the calf, is a taught
band of muscle. In fact you can almost see
that muscle spring away from my hand. I'm
going to seek a trigger point. Sometimes you
might hit it initially and it's very sharp.
To reposition your hands so you're very secure
on the spot you'll have to come back around
and find it again. Sometimes it's not as sharp.
Now frequently you won?t get as strong a response
as that, but if you do it's okay. Reassure
your client that you're doing what you need
to and reposition your hand and find the spot
and apply the pressure.
You can ask them what level of discomfort
using a scale from one to ten. So client what
are we experiencing here? It's actually comfortable
say a six. Okay. Alright. Sometimes trigger
points are mildly sensitive and sometimes
they are very sensitive. Once again I might
repeat that two or three times. I'm applying
a little more pressure. What this does is
it releases the fibers that are right there
under your thumb. It puts the muscle into
a stretch and it communicates to the muscle
that it can relax.